>> Kadi Kraman: This part is optional but
in this course we are going to have like
a pretty deeply nested root, like
a couple of really deeply nested files.
And we're gonna have a couple
of top level folders that we
need to import things from.
So initially when I wrote this you
do end up with really long and
tedious paths but
we don't need to suffer this.
We're using a TypeScript, so
I recommend you set up the Path Alias.
And this is actually set up to
using the default template.
And we just don't have that because
we are using the TypeScript template.
And basically all need
to do is update your TS
config and add this path alias to.
Well, whatever you want.
Where can I keep it simple?
You can add a part A, so
you can have multiple ones,
you can add it to multiple folders, etc.
But we are gonna just add
one top lower one, so
that if you do @/,
it'll link to the root of the project.
So I will copy this, go to our tsconfig.
>> Kadi Kraman: Here we go.
And now instead of doing theme,
we should be able to do @theme,
because this will link to
the top of the directory.
Obviously we are flat currently, but this
also means that when we refactor these
components, these files, which we're going
to do, then when you move these files,
this theme link will still work.
So it's much it's very useful.
And let's update the other
theme imports as well.
Okay, next up let's talk
about layout groups.
So our app is going to
have an onboarding step.
So the user will be faced with a special
screen that opens only when they open
the app for the very first time.
We're not doing authentication
in this workshop, but
you could use a very similar mechanism for
setting up authenticated routes.
So we're going to do a check in -app
to check whether the user has gone
through the onboarding flow,
and if they haven't,
they'll see the onboarding screen
instead of seeing the app screen.
So if you think about how auth works, it
is literally the same thing, so you could
use the same mechanism, but you will check
whether the user has a valid auth state.
So for this, we'll need to use groups.
We need to have a full screen modal
that can render over the top of these
bottom tabs.
So if I defined a new modal
screen just in this app folder,
then it will get rendered as a tab because
our layout here is a bottom tab's layout.
So, in order to have a modal
rendered on top of our tabs,
we need to use layout groups.
So, folders that are surrounded in these
brackets are layout groups folders,
the name of this folder isn't
included in the path of the screen.
So in the HREF pop the screen and
they should don't show up in the root.
So let's create a new folder called
tabs and it will be a grouping folder.
You can actually call this whatever so it
is a convention that we call the tabs for
the bottom tabs you could
literally call this whatever so
the name of it doesn't actually matter.
And let's move all of our
files into this tabs folder.
>> Kadi Kraman: And
now in our top level app folder,
let's create a new file called onboarding.
>> Kadi Kraman: And
this will be a placeholder screen.
So let's just copy the content from here.
>> Kadi Kraman: And now we have
a layout file here with our tabs, but
we don't have a layout file at the top,
so let's create one.
So at the very top, let's do a layout.
>> Kadi Kraman: So in our layout file,
let's export default function,
call it layout.
And we want to return a stack.
So, we want to render both the tabs and
your onboarding screen as a stack and
then we have a stack.screen.
So, this will be a screen that
renders all of these tabs.
All the bottom tabs.
So this is like one of our layouts,
I will say name will be the tabs.
So, notice that we're not doing tabs/index
because this has a layout file and
then it will let this layout file
configure how everything is laid out.
So, we can just link to
this folder instead It.
And the other screen that we
have is our onboarding screen.
So let's do name onboarding.
>> Kadi Kraman: Okay.
>> Kadi Kraman: Yes?
>> Speaker 2: So the only prerequisite for
the taps, the name is
the parentheses that's it, you can,
anything within that is, so you could have
named it whatever you want, like you said.
>> Kadi Kraman: I could have
named it whatever you want.
Yes, yes, correct.
>> Speaker 2: And
that's the export router then?
>> Kadi Kraman: It is, yes.
Yeah, so it is a layout root.
So I mentioned that everything,
like the root of your app,
so the first screen that opens is
the index screen in your app folder.
And you notice that there is no
index screen in our app folder,
but you need to have an index path.
So if you think of how these
files that we have now translate
to file paths like HREFs,
we have like this index file is
/index because it is
app/(tabs)/index right.
App isn't included because
that's just our root,
tabs is omitted because it's a grouping
root and index is the index root so
this index file still resolves to
the main entry point in our app.
>> Speaker 2: So if you didn't have
the parentheses there would Resolve
[CROSSTALK] it would resolve
the It would part of the route.
>> Kadi Kraman: Yes, correct.
Yeah, it would, and
it would actually give us an error because
we no longer have a root index file.
>> Speaker 2: Okay, interesting.
>> Kadi Kraman: All right, so
now we actually get two headers, and
this is very common when you are nesting
navigators because by default everything
will have a header and
then we are going to hide one.
In this case, let's hide the top one here
so we don't need one that says tabs.
So let's add some options and
we'll do headerShown: false.
>> Kadi Kraman: Okay,
>> Kadi Kraman: .So,
now we want to be able to check whether
the user has finished onboarding and
if they haven't redirected onboarding.
So by default, your app will open
the index roots, the root index file.
So what we can do, actually the order
of rendering is going to be
that it goes to this layout file, and
then it goes to this layout file,
and then it goes to the index file.
So we can intercept our rendering in
this layout file in our tabs directory.
So I'm gonna code this for now, so
let's do a const has finished on boarding,
and let's say false.
>> Kadi Kraman: And now we can use
a redirect component from expo router so
we can do if the user
hasn't finished onboarding,
then instead of returning
this tabs layout,
we're going to return.a redirect
And the HREF is going to
be our onboarding route.
>> Kadi Kraman: So now when I reload
my app, it actually opens onboarding.
And if I change this to true and
reload my app, it will open my app.